# Laptop Integration Testing Update - January 2026

## Summary

As part of the [Laptop Support and Usability Project](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/proj-laptop), we have started an integration testing phase to ensure the comprehensive validation of laptop functionality at a high level. This phase officially started in January at the FreeBSD Foundation's Kitchener office and has seen through the end-to-end tests of the Framework 13 7040 laptop (our primary test target) so far.

The main priority this month was to finalize the community contribution guidelines and workflow. We aim to start accepting external testing reports by the end of February.

## Completed

* Framework 13 Ryzen 7040 has been fully tested with all available WIP laptop development work. Test results are currently posted for review here: Testing will resume after patches for drm-kmod 6.11+ and S0i3 are posted for review.
* Lenovo Yoga 11e laptop also works well (including touchscreen inside KDE), pending a full test run. This will be used as a test target for legacy S3 sleep/resume.

## In Progress

* To accept testing reports from the community of FreeBSD users, we have implemented a simple automated flow to generate hardware probe results for a particular test target laptop/desktop. These changes are in active development here: https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/freebsd-laptop-testing/pull/18
* Due to the Plasma Login Manager dropping support for FreeBSD, the [Ly TUI login manager](https://codeberg.org/fairyglade/ly) is being evaluated as a replacement for the default login manager in the KDE installer script.
* Framework desktop testing is set to start at the beginning of February.

## Challenges

* KDE Plasma is not stable on latest drm-kmod: users may be intermittently sent back to the login manager. Through testing, it seems to be a window manager issue, which needs further investigation. Other wayland compositors like labwc and sway are stable.

## Next Steps

* Test GPU passthrough with Bhyve on desktops (pending the procurement of external GPUs)
* Design and prototype a simple laptop/desktop compatibility website to be eventually hosted at freebsd.org
